# Essential features

VCs offer a multitude of essential features that not only enhance security but also facilitate seamless interoperability across various systems and applications. Let's delve into the key attributes that make Verified Credentials a game-changer for digital authentication:

* VCs are **self-sovereign**, which means that creators and rightsholders are the primary owner and controller of their credentials. They can choose where to host, and when and how to use the credentials. The holder can also control the level of access granted to others and can revoke access at any time;
* VCs are **portable**, which means that once issued the holder can move credentials between different systems and platforms. The holder may also decide to use them with other applications or services as needed without loss of information or functionality;
* VCs are **interoperable**, which means that credentials issued by one system can be recognised and accepted by other systems, even if they are built on different technologies or operated by different organisations. Third party Applications can independently verify VCs that use different DID methods to identify the holder or issuer, using different DID methods to access public keys, and different encryption methods (e.g., ECDSA, EdDSA);
* VCs can also be **restricted in duration**. This means they support the ability to set a time limit on how long a verifiable credential is valid. Limited validity can be useful for credentials that expire, such as professional licence or certifications;
* VCs are **revocable**, which means that they can be revoked or cancelled in case of expiry. This is important for maintaining the integrity of the credential system and ensuring that only valid and accurate information is being shared. The revocation can be initiated by the issuer of the credential or by the individual who owns the credential. It can be enforced by the systems that recognise and accept the credential.
